---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment #3 Summary
date: 2020-12-17
---
<h1>Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective Blog.</h1>
<h3>What was accomplished in the project as compared to what was planned?</h3>
<p>I ended up having the several different products pages as planned from my checkpoint assignment. However, the thing I didn't accomplish with that was the little designs I was planning on doing for the products pages. Instead I just did a completely basic layout which got the job done at least. But I would have like the product to be shown as unique like the previous 2 assignments. But it was a cute and simple design that tells the user the name, price and description about the product, so it was functional just not as unique as I would have liked! </p>

<h3>Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?<h3>
<p>I tried making the products page into a template rather than what i used for my assignment. However, I noticed by using a template file, it wasn't functioning as good because of the other things we needed to do. So I opted to make all 7 of the products pages which took a lot of copying and pasting but It worked out. I'm kind of glad i didn't opt for a template as I was able to make the theme of my website the way I liked for each of the pages, as the template uses the same theme. <p>
  
<h3>What was your biggest project risk and how was it managed?</h3>
<p>Personally, I went a bit too extra for the products and brands I chose. I have chosen 7 brands with several different products for each -- in order for it to seem like an actual store with many different products to choose from. That actually took a lot of time, about a few days, to fully gather every single picture and come up with a small description for it. But because I wanted to make it seem like this website is a store where all the artists, journalers, and writers go to, it was worth the time and effort to go through every website and gather lots of things for my product data.<p>

<h3>What is your assessment of the overall quality of the system?</h3>
<p>Personally, I like the website but I think I would have worked on the visual design aspect a bit more as it look quite ehh in my opinion. I did not want to use a template as those would be super hard to incorporate with some of the things needed. I also wanted to work on my design skills a bit. It functions though! So I'm at least glad about that. <p>

<h3>What is needed before this system can be placed into operation?</h3>
<p>Honestly, I think mines would need work in terms of the visual design. It does not seem like an actual website but rather as a mock up. But I did like the nav bar under the cover photo as that seems like it is good from an artist perpective. I did this from an art and design background so I think it still needs a lot of work to make it look like a professional ish website. </p>

<h3>Describe what you are most proud of about this project:<h3>
<p>I love my products pages for each of the brand. I think the only thing that I didn't like about them is that the actual products aren't wrapped around like the previous two assignments, which sucks. But my products pages and all the other pages I liked the little simple designs I made for it. It's kind of basic but I liked how everything was consistent. Because I had 7 brands -- product pages, I had done each of them based on the colors of the rainbow. So, Kanken was purple, Archer and Olive had green, leuchtturm had blue, simply gilded had pink, tombow had yellow, put so nyeon had orange, and hobonichi had red. I wanted a similar theme of the rainbow for the products pages, while the rest were previous pages from the other assignments. <p>

<h3>Describe what you are least happy with this project:</h3>
<p>Personally, I have been having so much internet problems (even my friends mention their wifi sometimes goes out), so it was frustating that whenever i did test out my website, it was hard to do so because of the multiple spectrum outages this week. Also, I grabbed and credited Alyssa's code from hers as it was extremely helpful to make it function a lot more. I saw that Alyssa turned hers in. So, I had used several of her code to help with mines, as my code wasn't functioning as well as I would have liked, and adapted to mines because there was a lot of naming errors in my previous code. So I would say that I'm least happy with how the internet kept going down at night because of spectrum outages (which i can't control). Honestly, a huge thank you to Alyssa since I used her code to help out with the issues I was having personally! :) </p>

<h3>Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown.</h3>
<p> I worked on it myself. I gather all the things needed during the week we started on assignment 3. It was easy to just gather all my products data within a few days. I did not work on a partner but I did grab Alyssa's code to help make mines function more better since i had issues with names for my terminal! Again, shoutout to hers as it was really good :) <p>

<h3>Thank you! </h3>
