---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - Process in Programming Report
date: 2020-11-09
---
<h1>An Update on my Programming Skills.</h1>
<h3>My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:</h3>
<ul>
<li>learning and having more knowledge about JavaScript.</li>
<li>having the WODS allowed me to test my skills.</li>
<li>by researching little ways on how to improve my code, especially for assignment 1's design!</li>
</ul>
<p>Personally, I really do think my programming skills have improved over the course of a few months. I did have previous knowledge on things, especially in the design aspect of creating <i>(because I absolutely love design)</i>. I learnt more about Javascript and the ways it can be used for front-end design, as this was the thing I wanted to learn more about this semester! I'm glad that I have learnt and built upon my previous knowledge within a few months of mostly focusing on coding. Before this class, I usually just do this a more of a little hobby without actually putting more time into it. So, this class has made me more focused, I would say, in actually wanting to do more and learn more. :)</p>

<h3>I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</h3>
<ul>
<li>knowing more about css things and ways to improve in that aspect.</li>
<li>getting more comfortable about my style of programming.</li>
</ul>
<p>In assignment 1, I had designed my product webpage items with a general basic outline of the original kanken backpack which was somewhat similar to the actual product. But, unlike the actual product the circle part in the product outline for my web page pops out because I just thought it would be super fun to put that in! <i>(the actual bag does not do that)</i> However, I tried making a handle part for the top of the product but it was kind of difficult <i>(honestly, i'm still trying to figure out how to make a backpack handle)</i>. So, I ended up leaving the product css as a simple outline without the backpack handle. I do know more about my style in formatting and designing but I do think i need to work on improving it slightly as sometimes it gets messy!</p>

<h3>I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.</h3>
<p>In general, Yes. I could easily do majority of the WODs without looking because I had some background knowledge in majority of the WODs we were assigned. However the most recent WOD, <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/120.functions/experience-Invoice4.html" target="_blank">Invoice 4,</a> was the WOD that I took the longest on because I wasn't so comfortable with functions. In all the WODs before this one, I would simply complete the WODs after 1 or 2 attempts. But this particular WOD, I took the longest with 6 attempts. So, the screencast solution for that WOD was helpful to see where I was going wrong with my previous attempts!<p>

<h3>The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.</h3>
<p>Yes, the labs are very helpful in learning. The recordings are a great resource to go back on if there is anything that had confused me in class. I like how we go step by step in class to figure out how to do the instructions for the labs. The excerises allows us to practice and build up our skills, as to get better at something you must practice. So, in my opinion it was really helpful to build up some knowledge in class.</p>

<h3>I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).</h3>
<p> Yes, I think the only challenging part of Assignment 1 was about linking the two html together through the server javascript, which I eventually got help on with Prof. Port's zoom meetings! The other parts of the Assignment was really easy for me to figure out as it is taking aspects from previous WODs and labs and putting it together, or just a bunch of designing. Building small web applications are quite fun to do, especially the design aspect in which I literally do not mind at all, because designing and creating is super fun to do! My favorite thing about building these assignments is creating the overall base design with color palettes and boards, creating an overall vibe or aesthetic. Though, I'm still trying to figure out some more css to improve the design of my webpages, especially since I could not figure out how to create a simple handle.</p>

<h3>I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:</h3>
<p>I'm not sure about any ways in which the class can be improved on. I personally just think it takes a bunch of time and practice to build up your skills, that does that a lot of time and effort. It's more about self learning and research on ways to improve your skills. I did mention in my first essay, <a href="https://rosecb.github.io/essays/2020-09-13.html" target="_blank">Essay 1</a>, that "By practicing or experimenting with html/css, you can be more comfortable with knowing how to do things by habit." and "Just by practicing more often and taking the time to learn more, it can help improve your habits of doing these!" which I do think still applies as programming is a skill you still will have to improve on, no matter what level you may. We are constantly learning different and new skills -- whether it's cooking, dance, etc -- and programming is no different! :) </p>

<h3>These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:</h3>
<p>I do attend every session, so it is very helpful to follow along with the labs and learn more information about things. One of the most useful things is keeping reminders in my journal on when things are due and extra notes on things I need to learn more about and do more research on! Another thing is that, I do use my journal quite often for any ideas or design related things whenever I do plan out things like Assignment 1. It is very helpful to have general design layouts and potential color themes and a mood board of how I want my webpage to look like! Having a journal where you can easily visualize things was very helpful for Assignment 1! </p>

<h3>Thank You! :)</h3>
