---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 – Assignment 2 Reflection
date: 2020-11-23
---
<h1>Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay.</h1>
<h3>Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details. </h3>
<p>For assignment 2, we were to add a login and register feature page before the customer/user could purchase our items from assignment 1. We had to improve the website by adding the login and registation form to make the website for the user of the site. In order to purchase the products in the store, the user must login to their account or register, in order to access the invoice.</p>

<p>For more further information about this assignment,<a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html">click here to see the link to the e5 essay questions!</a>Thank you!</p>

<h3>What did you learn from this assignment?</h3>
<p>I learnt more about how to process all the data from the user register information, in order to allow the user to log back in whenever they are visiting the website as well. I did learn more about how to gather and transfer the product data within the different html documents, whether it was from product data to login to invoice or from product data to login to register to invoice. Also, the randomest thing I learnt and included in my assignment was adding the date and time to various different parts of the html documents I had. It was a small feature I included, especially in the invoice to indicate when the user 'purchase' their products on the online website.</p>

<h3>Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</h3>
<p>No, I did not work on a partner for this assignment.</p>

<h3>How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?</h3>
<p>One of the things I recieved help with was the personalization for the invoice from the login. I stayed behind and recieved help after our tuesday lab class asking about how to create the customization of the username from the login info to the invoice. However, I could not get the customization down for the register form to the invoice unfortunately :(</p>

<h3>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?</h3>
<p>I think it was slightly hard in terms of creating all the code that goes into both the login and register forms within the server.js. I had to google some things that was needed for both forms. I had to build upon assignment 1, which I'm glad that I had strong foundation for it so that it was easier to implement the newer code in. It was also very easy to make small mistakes since there was a lot of code, so sometimes in my mind it would just jumble up into one huge text, thus it was difficult to see some errors that i could have missed.I had to do a lot of trial and error.</p>

<h3>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging.</h3>
<p>For thinking about how to do something, I think it was about 15%. I got the help from google for some things i needed help on. But, it was really nice to have a strong foundation from assignment 1, so that i had majority of the things needed for a good foundation to start assignment 2.</p>
<br>
<p>For writing code but not testing it, I think it was about 35%. I had worked on writing the code for the general things on saturday, then the login code on sunday, and the register code on monday with other remaining code throughout tuesday to thursday. I think it was really easy for me to split up the major parts of the code for the assignment, so that i was not easily overwhelmed with things. I focused on the things I needed to fix or make, before moving onto the next one.</p>
<br>
<p>For testing and debugging, I think it was about 50%. I spent a lot of my time throughout the 7 days we had for assignment 2 just testing out if it works through my local host. I had made and deleted so many copies of assignment 2. I have 23 copies of assignment 2 in my trash can right now, so oops? But I did so much testing to figure out what is going correctly and what isn't working. I also made several different accounts to test out the register form in order for it to fully work, especially with the input fields needed. I just did a whole lot of testing throughout the nights to see whether it was working or not!</p>

<h3>Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?</h3>
<p>I previously mentioned that I split up my days focusing on one major part of the assignment throughout the weekend. I do believe it worked well to divide the things I needed to get done in order to not get super overwhelemed with everything! It also helped that I did alot of testing throughout the week. I also really liked the designing part of the login and register pages. I don't think I can ever get tired of designing things honestly :) </p>
<br>
<p>The things that did not work well is basically creating the sticky values for the product data and personalization of the username from register to invoice. Those were the few remaining problems I had to fix but couldn't really. So that kind of didn't work well for me, as those were the few errors remaining.</p>

<h3>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</h3>
<p>I would probably go back in time to ask about the sticky values for the product data, as I didn't really know how to do that part. Other than that, I think because I spaced everything out and planned on which day I'm working on which part, it was easy to figure out how to do several things that was needed in the assignment. Overall, I think I have improved in my programming skills, despite the small errors that I made in this assignment, compared to what it was like in the summertime, so I'm glad! :) </p>

<h3>Thank you! :) </h3>
