---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 - Performing WODs Essay
date: 2020-09-26
---
<h1>Overall Introduction</h1>
<p>Since I was a bit rusty at the start with the previous three browser histories, I had gotten used to my style again so I found these WODs easy as well. Since I'm a visual learner, I found the visuals very useful to create them. It just become more habitual from practicing almost every other day! Because of practicing and taking time out of my night every day/other day, It helped me focus more and improved my habits within this past month! Since I'm a visual learner, these example screenshots are quite helpful for me.  </p>
<b>Link for the E3 questions:</b>
<a href ="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html">Performing WODs</a>

<h1>Browser History 6</h1>
<ul>
<li>1 - Try 1: about 18 mins - Rx</li>
<li>2 - Try 2: about 13 mins - Rx</li>
<li>3 - Try 3 (final screencast): about 9 mins - Rx</li>
</ul>
<p>For browser history 6, we were supposed to add buttons that linked the three browser infromation to separate web pages! Also we had to change the background colors to black and have yellow words. For more information, click on <a href ="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/040.dynamic-web-pages/experience-browserhistory6.html">BrowserHistory6.</a></p>

<p>I don't think nothing really slowed me down for this WOD as I had some html and css knowledge. The thing that helped me was the visual example. It helped me visualize the end result of the browser history. Something I did similar to the previous WODs were to use the screenshot/screen recording. It was simple for me to pick up quickly as there wasn't much to do for this screencast, since I already knew what to do. Using the visual example given in the WOD instructions, it helped me know what features to write for the browserhistory6. I think that this WOD was helpful for me to keep practicing with being used to this. I did the same things as the previous WODs, which was quite helpful to practice. Honestly, by practicing three times for this WOD, it helped me time and speed run my final screencast. The time difference between the first and third tries were cut by half. My first time took 18 mins, then my final time took 9 mins. So, just by trying to time myself and make it faster, it helped me cut my time faster than my original one!</p>

<h1>Invoice 1</h1>
<ul>
<li>1 - practice round: about 18 to 19 mins - Rx</li>
<li>2 - final screencast: about 17 mins - Rx</li>
</ul>
<p>For invoice 1, we were supposed to create a sales invoice/receipt for different items. We had to include the price of each product, and the product names. In order to have dynamic values, and extended prices, we had to use expressions and variables for the different products. We also had to include the subtotal, tax, and grand total for all the products in the sales invoice/receipt. For more information, click on <a href ="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html">Invoice 1.</a></p>

<p>Similarity, I used the table example to help me visualize the final result. I think it was fun to go "shopping" and find the different products for the sales receipt. One of the things I did to prepare was to have the products ready in separate tabs. Overall, I liked doing this WOD because I got to find things I'm interested in and use them as an example for the WOD. I think one thing I wished I would have done differently is talking more about the products, while I was doing the screencast. I think I would have had a faster time if I didn't really spend the time to talk a lot about the things I chose! Other than that, I found it very fun to do because it helped me get used to having script and product data for each of the product I do. I also gotten used to the $$ for the document write. Since this was different than the four browser histories, I learnt more things to calcuate the sales invoice. I haven't done much of script, so this WOD was very helpful for me to learn more about this part of code.</p>

