---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 - UI Basics Essay
date: 2020-09-13
---

Personally, for each of the browser history's, I had to do 3 attempts each. The first one was a practice round, more of a refresher as I am familiar with html/css already. My first attempt was not recorded as a screencast WODs but instead just as a practice round. My second attempt was kind of a fail, in terms of recording. I kind of forgot to record my voice along with the screencast, so it was just an oops moment. My third attempt was actually really good because I actually had done it way faster than my previous two attempts, because I had to rerecord it. And this time I actually remember to record my voice for it. 

<h1>Browser History 1</h1>
<li>1 - practice round, no screencast: about 17 to 18 mins - Av</li>
<li>2 - screencast with no audio: about 14 to 15 mins - Rx & Av</li>
<li>3 - final screencast: about 11 to 12 mins - Rx</li>
<p>Since, I was quite familiar with html already, I just had to remember them from memory. So, it was easy to remember the basics of html. My practice round was more of getting started, so I just didn’t really put that much pressure on myself for timing. Knowing the lists and paragraph tags, It was quite simple to do, especially when we just had to copy and paste the paragraphs. My ‘fail’ audio WOD was quite faster, as I just got back into the habit of knowing and the order for it. But, of course I had to redo it again because I forgot the audio part. My final attempt was more faster, as I had already gotten used to/familiar with the order that the html needed to be.</p>
 
<h1>Browser History 2</h1>
<li>1 - practice round, no screencast: about 10 mins - Rx</li>
<li>2 - screencast with no audio: about 6 to 7 mins - Rx</li>
<li>3 - final screencast: about 4 to 5 mins - Rx</li>
<p>As for this one, I actually really like css designs. So it was quite easy to be familiar with this fast. All my attempts were Rx, but with different times. Since I had to redo the WODs, I just began typing faster. Out of all three Browser History’s that we needed to do, this one took the least amount of time personally. I think because I had to redo my WOD for this one as well, I just really wanted to finish it up fast.</p>
 
<h1>Browser History 3</h1>
<li>1 - practice round, no screencast: about 10 to 11 mins - Rx & Av</li>
<li>2 - screencast with no audio: about 8 to 9 mins - Rx</li>
<li>3 - final screencast: about 8 mins - Rx</li>
<p>This assignment was mostly focused on making the sections for IE, FireFox, and Chrome into columns. Because of this, It was a longer time than the previous browser history assignment, as we needed to type more things onto the html and css files. Just by redoing it again a third time because of the audio, it just allowed me to test myself on how fast I can do it.</p>
 
<h1>My Advice</h1>
<p>Personally, when I was doing my attempts, I looked at the pictures provided rather than reading the instructions first. Then read the instructions later. I like to do these html/css things in a design or visual perspective rather than a text instruction perspective. I think it’s more easier in my mind. The pictures provided was quite helpful, as I see it as the end result of the assignment we need to do. But, of course, I had to also use the instructions for the presentation part of the files. If you’re a visual learner, try looking at the picture first rather than the text because it can help your mind visually format everything!</p>
 
<p>I feel like once you are in the habit of typing/knowing the tags for html/css, then it will become easier. By practicing or experimenting with html/css, you can be more comfortable with knowing how to do things by habit. As I had done these Browser History’s by habit from past html/css and being familiar with how to order and format these. Honestly, once you have your “style” or your way of typing or formatting html and css files, I think it will be very helpful. Just by practicing more often and taking the time to learn more, it can help improve your habits of doing these! Hopefully, this helps! :)</p>
  
